CARTHAGINIENSIS - ΟΕΒΝΟ

199

were) with enricus tooth3 to cavus, i,m. Ahole.

flander, calumniate.
carthagmiensis, e,

mn.

cedo, ᾰῖτ, cesa‘, cusum, v. intr.
To give place, yield, go, depart3

(Carthfiqo). of, or belonging to, to resign3 cedere vitei, to die.

Carthage, Carthaginien, nabe„ a
carthaginian.

Carthfigm inis, f. Carthago.

carus, a, um, adj. Dear, pre·
cious, valned, esteemed, loved3
valuable.

casa, ω, s. A ootmge, hut.

caseus, i, m. Cheese.

Cassander, dri, m. A son of
Antipater, whom he suceeeded on
the throne of Macedonia.

castellnm, i, n. (dim. of eas-
trtcm). A little fort, castle, redoubt.

castigo, ἄνα, sivi, citum, v. tr.
(εωιω). To correct, chastise, pun-
ish, censure, chide.

castrnm,i, n. Α fortresa Plur.
castra, orum, n. A camp3 castris
uti, to live in camp.

castus, a, um, adj.01ean;
pure. cha-ste, innocent.

casus, m, m. (cado). A falb
chance, misfortune, ealamity3

catena, ae, f. A chain, fetter.

cathedra, ιε, f. An arm-chair,
easy-cheir.

Caucasus, i, ιιι. The rough
Canensian chain of mountains
inhabited by wild tribes in Asia,
between the Black and Caspian
sens.

cauda, oe, f. The tan.

causa, and caussa, ω, f. A
cause3 σαωᾶ, for the sake of.

cautus, a, nm, adj. and part.
(caveo). cautious3 on one’s guard.

civeo, ἕνα, effici, cautum, v.
intr. To be on one’s guard, nse
precaution ; to beware, guard
against, to take care.

cavus, a, um, adj. Hollow.

cedo, imper. of def. verb, equiv-
alent to da of dic. Give3 tell. .

celer, ὄντε, e, adj. swina,
speedy, quick.

emmas, aaa, f. (ceter). swut-

· nese, speed, celerity.

celer-Iter, comp. cesarius, sup.
celerrime, adv. (σεῖον). Quickly,
speedily.

celo, Ere, ᾶυί, δέκα, v. tr. To
conceal, hide.

celsae, a, um, adj. High, losty.

cena, or cena, ae, f. The prin·
cipal meal among the Romamn
dinner, supper.

ceno, or coeno, ὄνε, ᾶυί, citum,
v. intr. (osma). To sup, be at
supper.

censeo, ire, ιη’, eemum, v. tr.
To count, reckon3 to estimare,
think, judge.

censor, ὄνίε, ιιι. (censeo). A
censor, the name of two Roman
magistrates, who presided over
the rating of citizenS, watched
over their morale, and performed
other dut-iem a censurer, fault·
finder.

Centenius, i, m., 0., a Roman
praetor.

centum, num. adj„ indecl. A
hundred. ,

οόῐα,ω,ἰ. Wax3 plur.. waxen
cells of bees.

cerebrum, i, ιι. The skull;
braine.

cernnonia, and caernnonia,
ω, f. A ceremony3 veneration,
sanctity 3 splendor, pomp.

cerno, ere, crini, ericum, v. tr.
To sift; to perceive, see, discam,
distinguish.

